hey everyone it's sasha uh we are back
with some good friends justin betticare
from the ceo of reyes and jamie catcher
who runs their new york office to talk
again about the office of the future and
i've known
justin since the very beginning of
saster we used to have a great
co-working space he found us a
co-working space i i invested in this
company after he did and raise is very
interesting it is a hybrid technology
and brokerage
for commercial real estate for some of
the best for some of the best for the
notion um
uh and and many of the better top
leaders why combinator give me a few
other great fun brands justin throw a
few in
oh my gosh envoy
air table i've heard of that one that's
a good one like many of the best most
iconic tech companies
you know palantir talent here i've heard
of that one have you used especially and
what we're going to talk about is the
new world they have both pre and post
all of this
use rays to
previously find but now design and
manage these hybrid offices and
now that we're coming to the end of this
um at least the end of this version
we're all rethinking the office and
personally i even think this idea and
we'll debate this now for a minute i
think the hybrid office even is a dead
idea now we're all distributed teams
going to the office like in many cases
going to the office even little team
disaster we went from one to two offices
now we have sf and palo alto more
startups i talked to
have radically changed what a
headquarters is but actually have more
offices and more needs to meet up in
different fashions um than they did
before all of this and um
you know raise was on an incredible tear
with the best tech names we had we had a
few hits when in in 2020 but now our
back stronger and stronger and expanding
across the country right and and and and
jimmy and justin have worked together at
least informally in the past it is now
is joined to run new york so i want to
use this for a couple things but to to
peer behind the scenes with different
tech centers with new york uh with san
francisco maybe with austin miami and
others from these guys and also they
have data everyone on twitter i think
talks out of their rear on this um they
talk about how beautiful the park is in
san francisco on the two nice days they
talk about crime they talk about how
great miami is they talk about how miami
is all dudes and and retirees like i
just can't the twitter is not helpful to
the to this debate am i you guys agree
yes
okay so first let's slow down let's talk
about geographies the first one because
i it's probably the only thing that just
and i have slightly in in good sense
disagreed with over the last 24 months
is soma
and uh i walk the bay area i think is
great i mean we have a little office in
palo alto you have one too and it's so
fun and dynamic and i think it's better
than when i was running echo sign adobe
sign there but
i remember that office that you guys
were in it was cool but it was
tumbleweeds in soma black just
left right salesforce may not go back
are you is soma going to come back is
soma really going to come back for tech
what are you seeing
so let's unpack that a little bit slack
is coming back and salesforce is coming
back in a big way um you know they uh
they actually did something super
interesting recently in scotts valley
they have that like you know retreat
center for a lot of the distributed team
to go to um in that same story um you
know i think it was their head of people
or our cmo had mentioned that most of
their employees will be back to the
office three day about three days a week
um and so
uh you know uh we definitely agree
disagree on so ma let me let me
um hit you but you have the data so it's
this is i'm not saying i'm right i just
know what i see i've never seen anything
like zoma today right is reality right
like the occupancy level in san
francisco
is the lowest of any major city um but
let me let me throw some data at you so
yes in um uh you know we would all say
that 2019 was the peak of the office
market couldn't find anything couldn't
find anything right it was impossible
right you know like
every company was trying to lease
everything right it was like buying a
used car today it went over
used cars were going over list price for
real commercial real estate 2019 right
yeah and and in soma as we define it
apples to apples to what i'm about to
share um 8.2 million square feet of
office was leased okay um in 2020 that
sunk down below six in 2021 it was 9.6
million square feet a huge jump from the
peak and over the last 10 years has
averaged around 10. so we're almost to
the top average
of some of the most you know
active markets
in
one of the most important markets in the
world and that's just in soma so okay so
so let me make sure i understand that
yeah there's obviously a lot of there's
record vacancy because it's the lowest
it has the lowest occupancy of any major
city in the us but the amount of new
space that was leased by new tech
company probably primarily tech right
yep primarily 2021 is running at as high
a rate as it was in 2019 or approaching
it
well over
well over yeah and so but but occupancy
is still you know around 20 to 25
okay and and so i think that there's a
lot of factors that go into that right i
mean uh san francisco is a special
snowflake in in many ways um but uh you
know um it's had the most stringent mask
policies that that went away a couple
days ago yeah and you know we could tell
you in in the raised office which is
kind of near jackson square you know a
really nice area um i mean
finding building managing office spaces
is our life's work yeah and when mask
policies were in place like no one
wanted to go in and spend eight hours
ten hours with a mass that went off and
our office just exploded with energy and
everyone rushed back um and so i think
we're gonna see that um big tech you
know that uh apple
sales force facebook meta
um you know slack um all of these
companies are kind of targeting over the
next couple months but by april they
will all be back um and the the energy
and and the activity is going to just be
night and day
um you know for slack you saw in the
headline they gave up that big you know
200 000 square feet well the the story
didn't say that like that was spill over
space to their normal headquarters at
500 howard which they are keeping and
they just got ice cream
yeah and so they have this 500 hours
that really pretty building they have
right right at the gym
they're keeping that yeah yeah and have
redesigned it to make it you know
community based and whatnot and then
they also in that corner as you know
it's like salesforce you know park and
salesforce corner like yeah they they
have so much space so you know um uh the
the headlines
are not really telling the whole story
you know sales uh salesforce themselves
put up one of their half of their
building at 350 missions sephora took a
huge chunk of that so like all of the
space is like kind of there's so many
opportunities to like take really
amazing space yeah fully furnished out
um but yeah like the the data tells a
different story not on the occupancy
like what you see is reality like
there's not that many people around um
but that's why these next few months are
going to be so big as we like enter the
new phase of this and we kind of look at
what happened you know in the rearview
mirror
um there's just gonna be a lot of energy
there's not a lot of fear um you can
actually like really walk around and see
each other's faces and emotions and
energy and that makes a big difference
let me ask one related question and then
and then let's get let's talk a little
bit about other geographies and jamie
can help but
yeah sure what you just said
facebook sales force
those are great those are iconic names
but they're also my dad's startup right
i mean i don't mean that literally but
um
what
what i don't know what two things that
are interesting one is like during like
the peak of all this i think you closed
a big lease for notion i remember that
right when things were like
the worst they were right but notion
which i think of as a
the most classic example company that
could be
truly remote at least a massive super
slick
classic brick probably brick and timber
kind of thing we all dreamed about right
from the movies
is that happening though and religious
that are one thing that i'm not sure is
happening when i
certainly when i start investing is so
many founders from the rest of the world
coming to san francisco because
salesforce and facebook are in here and
that's enough to fill up the offices but
i don't know if the folks from belgium
and france and mexico are going to come
to san francisco the way they used to
i mean um there there's two very
distinct issues to talk about there so
like immigration and attracting the
world's best talent i think that like
that i think that if if thinking about
positive sum like more places are going
to attract you know uh international um
uh talent and i think bay area will
still be one of them but like
you know i mentioned a lot of big tech
right but let's look at like you know
um
uh like iconic
high growth really revered brands like
figma took down a massive
is a great example so figma you know
hold on let's just stop there because
that's a great one because for every for
every company that leaves the barrier
there's a thousand unicorns
right so if just enough unicorns stay in
san francisco they could actually absorb
all the real estate because we're only
building so much right so like why does
a figma although figma wasn't thinking
is such a great company it wasn't
founded yesterday right it's probably 10
years old but what was in figma's mind
why did they decide to lease a massive
office in the middle of all midst of all
of this yeah i mean because they know
that um connect you know the
connectivity
like the importance of bringing people
together they publish publicly like an
amazing you know new kind of look on on
how we work um you know chime right like
high growth fintech company yeah they
had a huge lease right huge right over
200 000 square feet so um yeah you know
and and like and then you look at like
the companies like loom that are uh or
you know one of our clients brex that
are creating these amazing cafe spaces
yeah that are like um you know uh perks
rather than like you know um hubs that
you have to go into um and so you know
uh thumbtack is actually designing
like a library so they're going opposite
they're like you only do focus work here
you know so it like a lot of companies a
lot of really amazing creative companies
a lot of unicorns are going to be
experimenting but what they do know is
that
um
you know that it is just so important to
to create that connectivity whether it's
every day a few times a day a few times
a week or even a few times a year where
like off sites or on-sites become the
new off-sites
so let's um i want to talk about new
york but you got a couple iconic brands
there i want to press in sorry we'll do
we'll get there now i i this is this is
all good this is great but like brexit
is a fun one enrique and sam do a lot
with faster right so when when all of
this hit the co-founders of brex moved
to southern california right and the
sales team that sam runs which was the
largest area they're all distributed sam
lives in miami he's coming to our miami
meet up shortly
but they're having a huge in-person
presence so what is that like i think
that's maybe one of the more radical
ones more radical than figma right how
are what have you learned how are they
thinking about using this space um when
they went from overnight to massively in
person to very distributed like what's
that what were they trying to get out of
this so they're you know
like you know hybrid actually is
starting to kind of get a almost like
feel like a negative word or something
it's just a spectrum of how people want
to run their companies
um
uh with brax they're remote first kind
of like coinbase and and others where
like
everything that it takes to run the
company how they communicate everything
is done
digitally right um yes you know through
through all the different channels
whether it's async sync whatever
um and so the the places that they're
creating
um
are are are to bring people together
when they want to come have like a very
like you know uh collaborative kind of
just in person fun fun experience
they're not there to kind of do heads
down work similar to dropbox that like
you only go into these spaces to like
meet up with other people or clients or
whatever yeah so there's like certain
people that like want that um often uh
but like they see it as when we have a
higher concentration a higher density of
employees like we want to be able to
bring together in like really kind of
fun you know collaborative spaces um but
we we don't want
um there to be this kind of feeling of
like you know um um
first and second class citizens
depending on like whether you're in
office or remote and so that's a big
topic maybe we can get to in a minute
the citizen thing is something that
we've we've all had to figure out now
right totally yeah so yeah so i think
it's like they're all we're going to
experiment like crazy over the next few
years which is going to be
unbelievably fascinating and exciting um
and then you know
learning like what um you know companies
like airtable or figma or loom which are
also doing those kind of creative like
you know um hubs but like you're they're
not designed to just kind of go heads
down work um and
um you know there's not going to be a
one size fits all but i think we're
going to learn such amazing things
coming out of this um you know but from
the headlines to like the reality
uh you know even companies as big as you
know google and meta are expecting the
vast majority of their employees to come
at least a few days a week yep okay one
last question on soma and then david do
you want to talk about new york maybe if
we can atlanta miami austin because they
all have different experiences right but
okay a mistake we all make and justin i
know you're biased but be unbiased speak
from data let's say i'm a ceo and i've
raised a couple million 10 million 100
million whatever dollars yep and i'm not
i i want an office in san francisco but
i'm in no rush okay like i'm at home
when when is it all going to be go
because it always happens like capacity
you think there's all this capacity and
then you cross a line and there's
nothing right this is both residential
commercial used cars like we could pick
a lot of assets that have this the
elasticity is very strange isn't it and
it hits you like whiplash right
realistically when would you say you
should be
getting an office before everyone
figures out they want an office don't
tell me it's too late because that
doesn't help what is that date
but you're going to be sat on the
sidelines too long
as objectively as possible
over over the next three months and i
say that because
like you know it's a little bit before a
lot of other a lot of the big tech and
big offices are going to be repopulated
there's a good amount of subleases um
and you have to bet that like
the
you know
you can't get away with like
you know locking things down again and
so like this is like the most confidence
you can have about things staying open
and like us moving on um but there's
still good opportunities um people are
gonna start getting more and more fomo
as like you know you walk around the
streets and there's ever like you know
the shops and the sandwich spots are the
coffee shops are open um i'm really
really bullish that um you know it's
gonna get really exciting towards the
second half of this year
okay
so leave something by this by the summer
at the latest if you want a cool spot
and have choices in in soma right get it
done by the summer right
getting them and that means you're
starting now right in essence you have
to change yeah
i want to know the people if they start
by the summer they take a little bit of
time to make up their mind and they get
going before the summer the the that
they're getting ah they're still getting
ahead enough that they don't have to
panic right
yeah and like you know parents are
settled in schools are opening back up
so like it's just a really good time um
that like people are like kind of locked
in on where they want to be for the next
year
yeah so
so jamie tell us about new york i
remember watching million dollar listing
and and this started it happening and
you could you could get like a beautiful
uh 11 room penthouse in uh
in the meat packing district perhaps the
price of today right you'd walk around
what's it called north of the
meatpacking what's that area called
you're going like west village no no
north
what's that a whole new area the whole
new area where the office
yeah hudson yards was like quick it was
like
for a while right it was like soma there
but now everything's back folks went
home and let's talk about atlanta austin
and miami where folks actually kept
working in the office but what's up is
it true what's the texting like who and
you work a lot with tech tech focused
media it sounds like they're back at the
office with a passion right they they
are i think uh for sure for sure i think
the the the the level of activity i know
you don't want to talk about that it's
called the household names but in
reality we have to because they're the
ones that drive growth and they're the
ones that the mid markets then follow so
when you see
you know the big tech companies further
committing to new york as
over this period of time uh for the past
20 plus months and then in addition they
are continuing to grow in in this
respective market has a full-on trickle
down effect to the mid-market growth
companies so you so ie like the roku's
tick-tock all these companies have kind
of established themselves and are
further growing in this market and then
you know taking it one step further then
you go to the next level level of growth
that you know planning that that you
know 300 to 500 seats of full growth
mode right um so
it in new york it's it's it's such a
unique market um you know unbiased
because you know this is the the market
i live and breathe and i'll i'll put
this market against many other markets
but the diversity of the market it helps
us because of the the the industry
specific from the legal sector to the
financial sector and the and the tech
sector all they support one another
right so you're seeing this continued
growth
well there's good things for you to
understand right right like the
unlike when we we we try to the way we
have to look at the market is that
new leases okay in this market period of
time over a hundred thousand feet which
is a of significant size yeah
yeah these these are you know we're
looking at like almost like
four to five x uh as many transactions
closed in this period of time since last
year okay let's slow down for folks that
haven't read in an office yet a hundred
thousand straight is what i call super
unicorn phase or big company right
you're not you don't need even if you
raise it a billion you may not have
enough employees to need a hundred
thousand square feet right
you're pre-ipo you're probably pre-ipo
you're probably pre-ipo at that point
right it's an important factor because
you know as these companies are
established they are looking past the
forest right they're looking at
operations being opportunistic and also
being and being enough it's a you know
the drive is this flight to quality okay
so right now like the better better
opportunities better assets are being
leased faster at a very high rent and
you know so all of a sudden that space
becomes
taken off the market pretty quickly yeah
and granted
you know there's other obviously product
that is being built and being uncovered
but the market that
you know when you when you start to look
at core concentration of tech which we
define as midtown south right let's call
it 34th street canal river river is the
core market yup soho chelsea union
square flatiron right in that market
from like over year to year there's 500.
let's call 500 000 square feet of leases
which is about it's up 65 and
approximately 65
from a year ago okay and that's how
that's broken out right when you break
that out those are those are 5 10 15
20 000 square foot tenants so those are
tenants that are
from 20 people to 150 people well that
was the offices most of us want right
the 5 to 20k square feet right that's
what we want right so so that market
right is is still
the most competitive market for for for
called high growth tech as you start to
establish yourself um in that market it
just gets more difficult to find
opportunities given the lack of product
so you then have to kind of push
boundaries
hudson yards
downtown you kind of have to kind of
spread your wings a little bit
but
like every other startup's doing but yes
i hear it okay so let me just focus on
listening you're watching let's say i
want five to ten thousand square feet
like as you're growing it series a if
you can afford it that's what you want
how hard is it today
um to get to find a for you to find a
couple spaces i might like is it how
hard is it on a scale of one to ten it
it it's you still there's there's still
plenty of space there is plenty there is
plenty of inventory okay there is
there's this
when will the answer be
like pulling out my hair type like 20
19. well we'll be there in the summer in
the fall when will we yeah let's go
summer fall i i'll follow i'll fall just
on that let's take the same same path
um
so i think what we're going to see is
once this once the schools get you know
once the turn for the schools happens
again you start to say that you start to
see that acceleration happen because
people know where they're going to be in
september
so
jamie brought up a good point so you
know uh
a lot of the last two years
have been um
big tech
um
doing more leasing in a period of time
than they have ever in history um we our
data shows 18.4 million square feet of
leases by big tech amazon you know um
facebook google microsoft microsoft etc
um
that's 312
football fields of office yes in the us
for office um and it's because they can
look two three four years beyond and
that's why you know a lot of um the
folks in the sasser community you know
some are in that category but a lot of
them are like okay well i i can't look
you know two years i can't lease a space
two years down the line you know like
that that doesn't make any sense and
that's why we're saying that like over
the next kind of six to nine months are
going to be really critical um you know
because the the world is opening up but
there's still a lot of good
opportunities for really amazing spaces
um you know uh um you know raises a
hundred people right we have
7 000 square feet in san francisco and
it's you know gorgeous space ground
level on a park that we got for a great
deal um there's there's definitely a
good amount of those and still built out
and like you don't have to invest a ton
in the space um but that's what's going
to be accelerated now that we're like
through this because
you know ceos and you know people
building companies can see three six
months in advance except and i think to
touch upon i know we talked about before
like the distributed workforce where i
think you mentioned like you're starting
to see people spread out like where
they're working and you know in
different parts of the country out of
that that's called 18 million square
feet
15 is in new york so it's still a big
concentration of
of a
stat that um is not going away and
there's there are there's kind of
more as we're seeing more of these high
growth tech companies
were seeing firsthand fully committing
now and looking at this opportunity as
like maybe these are this is where we
want to bring the talent because we're
we're we need to start mentorships we
need to start like like building a a
company together and that's why you
start to see this significant growth it
sounds like maybe one thing on twitter
that may be actually real is that folks
in new york tech and media may be more
aggressive in getting back faster than
in the bay area right yeah and it's yeah
i i think you're right and i think
sergeant's good
i mean almost by twofold right i mean
um like
jamie what would you say kind of around
60 percent occupancy is like
pre pre you know panic
um and you know we just heard the ceo of
uh uh google talk about their over 50
capacity um and they're not know that
wow um and so you know you you are
seeing that and i think that like
again i do think that the bay area is
just slower it's not like not gonna
happen um and and so yeah like new york
and then you know you were mentioning
like other markets around the country
that had
less mandates uh over time or got rid of
them sooner yeah atlanta miami stuff
like that what do you see in atlanta
miami austin like what's what's what you
seeing there um like huge growth you
know um uh uh
facebook just did the biggest office
lease in history in austin uh
like you know residential numbers are
crazy um the the the growth of of of um
rental rates in miami is insane and
they're you know trying to build
buildings you know as fast as as
possible um you know i'll be spending
some time there soon as well um
hopefully i can make your event um
but um you know
like the office so we were looking at
studies from um
companies that a badge you know
companies so like that they like you
know um you have the real data right so
we have the real data um so on average
about 30 percent 33 across the country
um are are are back in regularly um
according to like you know the badge
data um but but definitely in kind of
like you know southern states it's it's
much higher right it brings up brings up
the average um and you know
like places like houston i think is is
is across the board
you know almost to 50
um and so that's where the fascinating
data is is you know um where where um
the pandemic has kind of been over and
people are there's been no restrictions
like you know you do see folks that like
want to get back
yeah just to give you just a kind of
levels up there right so we're in the
we're in the single digits
in in new york right through
of occupancy
right the peak or nader however we look
at it yeah single digits right yeah
right and
now and and as justin said you know at
the
peak of occupancy was like 60 or so
right and now if new york is hovering on
30 percent that's 50 back
yeah that's a good way to let let's wrap
this point up if new york's 50 back
right for folks trying to get their arms
around it that's a really great way to
see it right that's unacceptable
and accelerating right
so
it took me that was my thesis it took me
a while to figure this out we were
trying to figure out what to do with our
little sf office which we've been into
four times in the last two years but
then i realized it's not new york but
like we just should just keep it because
it'll in six months we won't be able to
find it there's just no that's right we
just want we're not paying much for it
it's so pretty it's built i love that
office and it's like you know we don't
use it but like one of our guys is there
today it's like we'll never like it
we'll never go back and it will ever
we'll never go back to sf if we let it
go but that's a good number we're
halfway back and accelerating so that
kind of ties to find your office in six
months if you want to do it in a low
drama way that's what we're saying the
data center
today supports it i think and we saw it
you kind of sought it when you're
following the residential side of the
market
of the the the you know the activity
level and pricing
was was changing in favor of the owner
or the landlord quickly yep so once you
start to see people coming back and
wanting to be back to live in the city
that then
kind of
you know start to move the needle on
occupancy
so let me just hit two more things
before we run out of time
one once one's a little bit nerdy but
back in the day when i was briefly a vp
at adobe adobe was the last tech company
to go from offices to shared workspaces
right and i moved in there and i'm like
offices like they're so quiet they suck
this is such an old company then i
realized man it's great for engineers
great first it was a mistake
and i was a vp or the most junior svp
and i sat with the finance team they
said the reason we're doing this is we
can increase density 40 that's right
okay that would have nothing to do it
was a cost issue 40 they could jam more
into the two towers and adobe is adobe
one so related question
how does load work on spaces how many
square feet do i need for how many
employees that are there how much are we
jamming are we going to jam even more
people into our office is it less how
does this load and head count per square
foot math work in this new world because
i don't know what the formula is anymore
so um oh man a lot to unpack here so um
what's fascinating um the u.s bureau of
labor statistics just just published
some really incredible numbers and you
know harvard business review business
insider bloomberg all covered it only
5.5 percent of businesses have reduced
their their square feet um relative to
how many employees they have um in the
country and um there's a lot of reasons
for that um but what we're seeing is
that like and and by the way
love it or hate it the vast majority of
companies are going hybrid right like
yeah you know we did a study of the top
160 yc most valuable uh yc companies
um published last year uh 81 of them are
going hybrid in some form or fashion but
let's be clear that and i think some of
this is sad just like offices were said
that means you're not going to get a
dedicated desk
okay that's not true
to me that's the pro that's the one as
an old timer i'm not willing to go to
non-dedicated
trust me we have that plummet in
productivity to doing their hoteling
right yeah so we have we we definitely
um go back and forth on this at raise
too um and you know sometimes it just
kind of happens that way that you kind
of just go to the same one well the
finance folks are gonna tell you you'll
save a lot of money hoteling right and
with and with hot hot desks right right
so yeah so so what kind what what a lot
of our clients are doing is um like
basically you ha like every employee has
to
kind of put a stake in the ground for
six months or nine months or twelve
months sometimes and say like i'm uh in
office which means three or more days a
week or hybrid flex and then like you
get a hot desk and then remote first
means that like you know you
you can pop in and out when you want but
like you know and there's some really
cool tools like one of our clients envoy
does a lot of this stuff but like um and
so that's how a lot of companies are
doing it it it it really depends on
um how often you're going to be in there
yeah 60 percent more time you get a
dedicated desk this is becoming a pseudo
standard right
um yeah right and that that makes sense
that way you can plan around it right um
doesn't it that doesn't mean you're
going to cram more poor poor employees
into the same amount of space
so yes we're not seeing a drop
we're not no you're not yet um
square feet per person it's still i
think what 200 in new york 150 square
feet in san francisco it varies um
market to market um but we're not seeing
a huge drop and like i think you know um
like
a lot of people ask us like are we
actually gonna be able to do better work
or you know in hybrid offices right well
like i would argue that hybrid offices
are are maybe a move into being able to
do our best work because you know
they're gonna have dedicated quiet times
they're gonna have like communal space
that are like separate they're gonna be
designed that way like you know some
folks are just going to have you do
focus work outside of the office and
then come in for like you know the
serendipity and the fun um and so i
think that there's going to be an
amazing
um
improvement to design to like kind of
really figure out that balance um but
that has been a surprising thing i like
i think um yeah we did something early
in the in the pandemic and i had
predicted that like it was actually
going to be a little bit more per square
foot per person um because it just takes
a lot to do it's not the same
but yeah you might need you might need
more office space to handle the ebb and
flow and flots of injections the
collaboration per person right yeah
i think that we're also going to see um
you know
uh
uh and i think you alluded to this like
small smaller concentration but like
a a really interesting result of all
this is that like you know companies are
going to have more offices not less well
that was the penultimate point i wanted
to put is the rise of what we used to
call satellite offices but i don't even
know if that's the right term anymore
right
yeah sure hub satellite office
everyone has groups of employees in
multiple places now that we didn't used
to have right
i mean you know one of our
one of our clients mercury which is like
a really really successful um you know
fintech company um and they publish this
so i can share it like um you know
around 100 employees they had six off
four you know five or six offices
and that would have never happened
earlier like you know we have six
offices i mean we're a little bit
different as you know but like companies
smaller companies are having more
offices sooner um because you know they
can have four or five folks together and
like you know they want to spend some
time together um and and like you know
we're doing a lot of really cool stuff
around
our products to help with that
and i think there's two two layers that
i think are our clients are realizing
that you know in terms of the war for
talent they have to accommodate this
right the talent is now they have an
opportunity to take town from any parts
of the world or any parts of the country
so you're starting to create that as the
you know they want to you know have that
ability to retain that that talent the
second thing we're literally just on the
phone with a high growth fintech company
this week
and we start to talk about workplace and
understanding what their vision is and
they have some significant group several
hundred employees of growth in the next
24 months and the head of what had a
workplace said
i needed a dedicated seat per employee
okay and that that that has everyone has
a physical space if they're not there
maybe they're there maybe they're there
four days a week they're three days
right but they're like me they they
believe that's music
yeah
so just to finish that point up does
that and then i want to hit one last
thing and then we'll break but sure
my intuition once we at the beginning of
all this was startups would take more
space as as hybrid companies because
if you kept your hq you would need more
offices to handle more of your team and
then actually not only space but and
cost would go up right because even no
matter what happens three times the
offices
right or we're paying even our little
team which doesn't get we're paying i'm
paying twice in rent what i did before
all of this right so as founders
uh and but there's a handful of startups
i work with that pay no rent now right
but on average you think this is going
to drive costs up because we need more
spaces and there's not less effective
density in our headquarters
it's hard to tell i mean
so many things are
inflated in pricing and things like that
construction costs furniture
everything's taking longer everything's
more expensive so so like that stuff
will level out um and then i think that
like the other thing that we've seen is
that um
if the strategy was just take as much
space as possible concentrate in one
place um we like companies have been
really effective at like subleasing you
know floors
uh to other companies and so you know um
like uh brian armstrong had a great post
um the ceo of coinbase he's like i want
you know um one floor and ten cities
rather than ten floors in one city right
and yeah we want that i think it costs
more than 10x does it cost a little bit
more to maintain 10 offices i think it
might cost 13x or 14x to achieve that
vision that's my guess
it depends i don't think it's that much
because you know
where you are office space the cost of
office space in san francisco and new
york are so great and so meaningfully
low but they're soft costs right there's
soft costs you know there's there's
people there's you know um it's it's one
of the things that i was most excited to
kind of
build um through um and i don't want to
you know make this an advertisement
outrage but like with like we bet on
like the complexity it's just more
complex to manage ten leases then it is
more complex that's part of your
software solution but
the full i think the fully burdened cost
of 10 offices is more than one
okay the complex that i'm not saying
your least costs are but
yeah it's kind of educated right it's
complicated right agree and you guys are
helping to solve it okay last very last
question related to that who's first
some fun on raise as a startup okay and
and justin you're a second time founder
you co-founded 42 floors before this
which old timers listed to this may
remember as an initial play trying to
combine technology with brokerages right
zillow for commercial real estate yeah
and you're you own the brokerage side
which did really well the technology
side competed with the brokerage it was
kind of a mess in the end yeah
but you so and raise was kind of like a
redo of that but but be a lot a line
align with brokers rather than compete
with them okay but now since then open
doors gone ipo the world's changing
um
what i don't think in commercial real
estate we will get beyond brokers
because i don't i i don't think airbnb
works for a hundred thousand square feet
right
but but the world will change so where
is it like
where is this going commercial real
estate you you are one of the vanguards
in making it easier in presenting stuff
in managing offices and making the
process
less
a pro a process where i pulled out my
hair as a founder less friction full
but where what's the next level for
technology here for for founders and
tech office space where does it go from
here will there be i don't think
there'll be an open door but is there an
open door or what's going to happen i
mean
you know you could argue that the
closest comparison to open door um on
you know they're buying and selling of
homes right but like on the leasing side
we work right like we work kind of
provides flexibility um one click you
know but niche but it's niche right but
yeah yeah keep going yeah
it's a good point yeah it's not as big
as
perhaps it was
destined to be in 2019 but like they've
right-sized and like they provide
flexibility and
and even liquidity you know like you're
not having to do long-term leases in
three out of the six markets we start
with we work and sometimes still in it
sometimes um but you know um and even
with all the open doors and everything
uh residential brokerages
um have withstood the test of time you
know the the vast majority of
transactions happen happen with brokers
um you know on the residential side yes
but it's always hard to tell the
beginning of the curve right right so my
question is what happens to open door
type companies in 2020
seven not today because that we know
it's hard to see that the cur the slope
of the curve right yeah i mean i think
commercial is important in some very
different way and very important ways
right the the the deals are bigger and
more complex yeah yeah you know exactly
go ahead jamie yeah i'm going to say i
mean you're the the levels of
peer or individual we are dealing with
in this type of transaction are you know
cfos ceos founders it's the
sophisticated you know group of
individuals that are driving that
process
so at the human interaction and being
able to like look across the table or
or build that bond you can't replace
so agree but people are going to look
are going to try more kids at y
combinator are going to look at
brokerage fees and say look if i can
apply technology to that like like like
a brex does right and other things so i
can buy some technology to that and take
a and automate just even a half of that
away right i could build this why you
guys are thinking about this too as a
startup right i mean it's in your head
i'm just asking five years from now
can someone grab some of these brokerage
fees and flip them into software or or
is it not possible right how much can
you raise
we think about it very similar right
like we're taking a lot of processes
that like you know have been
done the same way for decades and you
know
a really strong level of automation and
then now we get to build things that
that could not be done um
without the without the platform out of
powers um you know there there are um a
lot of examples
you couldn't do before with razer
otherwise what's an example of something
you can do for for commercial office
space i mean uh one example that we
talked about right like um running your
entire real estate portfolio from end to
end um on a platform right you're you
have
radically simplifying multi-office
management totally like you're searching
for different offices radically
simplifying it right all of your leases
you're collaborating with all of your
different teams and vendors it's it's
really amazing um but like what like i
was saying i think that um because of
the complexity and and the size of deals
um and also we're talking about leasing
right and so you know there's just a lot
of moving parts with leasing as opposed
to like you know open door with buying
and selling it's like
very different on either side um yeah
and you know with broker fees look like
we never say it doesn't cost the company
anything but landlords pay the fees
across the entire united states and like
it's a rounding error for what they get
in rent and and the value that they
provide so um i think that i think that
in commercial real estate things are
uniquely suited um for the best brokers
and i think the the innovation is going
to happen around how the work is done
how the work exactly is
the transformation
um you know and so that's the big bet
we're making and it's going out pretty
well
okay since we're out of time let me just
summarize a couple things um in markets
like new york we're already 50 back
in miami it's off the charts other
places so if certainly if you're in new
york or north and you and you not sure
you want to go but you think you might
want to get an office again get it now
like because we're already we're 50 and
worse we're trending upwards san
francisco you've still got a little time
but but there's more going on than you
think we're leasing more space in 2021
than 2019. there's capacity and the
offices are quiet but get that office
time by the summer
and there's more technology here look at
things like rays and others to help you
manage multiple offices because we're
all figuring out this hybrid thing thing
together now right
awesome yeah
if we want to learn more we go to
raise.com is that where we should go
raise dot work raised
work right raise dot work
r-a-i-s-e-rays.work
w-o-r-k does that run on the blockchain
that dot work
no it's just a regular it's just a
regular old url we're bits and atoms um
but we're not on the blockchain all
right we'll raise that i will look at
but jamie congrats on joining to run new
york justin thanks for the time thank
you appreciate it we'll use you guys
we'll check in every six months or so to
check the barometer
of where you know the future of work is
going all right jason always a pleasure
man